>> Todd Gardner: Hopefully at
this point you feel like, crap,
is my site fast enough?
Web performance seems important.
Hopefully, you're a little worried,
and that's okay.
Cuz now we're gonna talk about
measuring web performance.
Now, what do we talk about?
What's in measuring?
Well, first we're gonna talk
about the legacy metrics, so
metrics that as far back as
the Internet has existed,
that we use to decide whether or
not a page is fast.
We're gonna talk about what they are, and
why they may not be as relevant anymore.
Then we're gonna talk about the core
web vitals, which I mentioned already,
the core web vitals being Google's
metrics to decide whether or
not your SEO is good enough for
performance.
We'll talk about a few other metrics that
exist out there and why they're relevant.
We'll talk about capturing them,
how you collect them.
And then some discussion of browser
support of these different metrics.
Along the way, we're also gonna talk
about waterfall charts and flame charts,
which we'll need in order to kind of
explain these metrics and what they mean.
So let's get into it.
Let's talk about,
measuring web performance.
What does that mean?
How do we measure fast?
Well, in order to measure fast,
we need to know how to look at that data.
And often, fast is measured in
a thing called a waterfall chart.
Have any of you here heard
of a waterfall chart?
You feel comfortable
with waterfall charts?
Yeah, all right.
In my career,
I saw waterfall charts forever, but
it really wasn't until the last four or
five years that I really got
into the details of understanding them and
what they tell you.
Because you can get 60% of the information
kinda just glancing at them, but
I didn't really understand them until
I really dived into performance.
And so that's what we're
gonna do a little bit now.
So here is a super simple waterfall
chart with one thing in it.
So, waterfall chart measures time.
And usually, we're measuring
very small amounts of time.
We're measuring in milliseconds or
microseconds,
depending on what kind
of thing we're doing.
Now, there'll be multiple
streams in this waterfall.
This particular waterfall
chart only has one thing.
And it looks like we're
loading a document.
We're loading some web page,
some HTML document.
And we see a line at the start,
is when we know we need to do something,
we know we need to make a request,
a request is going to be made.
And then there's some amount of time where
might know that we need to make a request,
but we can't do it yet.
Because we're busy, because
the computer is doing something else or
the queue is too long, or various
other things have gotten in the way.
And so the time between start and
when the document starts is the queue and
connecting time.
Then we're going to
actually make a request.
We're gonna send a request to a host
that says, hey, give me this thing, and
we're gonna spend some time waiting.
We're gonna wait for how long that host,
how long that server on the other end of
the internet takes to figure out
what the hell it wants to do and
starts sending us some data.
Then when we get into the darker color,
that's when we've started getting content.
There's a stream of data coming to us and
we have to figure out what to do with it.
So we're streaming in that data,
we're collecting it, we're parsing it,
we're trying to figure
out if it makes sense.
And then we might need to do
something with that data, but
we might not be able to do it right away.
The browser might be
busy doing other things.
We're waiting on the main thread
before we're actually done.
Now, this is just the anatomy of
a single row of a waterfall chart.
Now, the colors mean things,
generally, in the web world.
And it breaks down like this,
so blue is an HTML document,
we're asking for the HTML itself.
The purple is stylesheets.
Yellow is JavaScript.
Green is images.
We also request fonts,
which are in this teal color.
And then there's lots of other things that
you also end up requesting on the web,
fetches, iframes, other media files,
all kinds of crazy stuff.
That's just generally in gray because,
what other color do you do?
So let's look at a real example of this.
How does this actually put together?
Here's a super, super simple website,
waterfall chart.
So we're gonna start, and
the user navigates to a webpage.
And the browser might be busy, there might
be redirects or other things happening,
and so we can't start right away.
There is a small time right there
where we are unable to get started.
And then the browser
downloads the HTML document.
Now, as part of downloading that document,
we figure out all the things in it.
Are there stylesheets?
Are there images?
Are there references to JavaScript?
And we discover those
pretty much all right away.
We see, hey,
there's all of these different things.
There's two stylesheets,
a JavaScript file, and two images.
But the browser can only download so
many things at once,
it doesn't have infinite capacity.
In this case, the browser had the capacity
of two, which isn't what the browser's
capacity actually is, it just works
functionally for this example.
Now we download these two style sheets,
and when they're done,
we download this bit of JavaScript,
and we start a couple of images.
Maybe we run out of capacity again,
we only have the capacity of two, so
the second image is delayed.
And we're not all the way done until
we hit the very end of this thread.
So here we're able to trace
a set of dependencies, or
a sequence of things that have happened,
so that we can try and optimize it.
Now, we're gonna use these
charts to explain a lot of
the different sequences for
web performance metrics.